{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl {\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
\uc1\pard\nowidctlpar\ulnone\b\f0\fs20 1. Structure/Presentation\par
\b0\par
The format for our "movie" is experimental in nature --  it is an interactive narrative.  There will be a collection of shorts/vignettes that will be viewed nonlinearly (but not entirely) based on choices the viewer makes.  The presentation of the piece will be as a CD-Rom and with Macromedia Flash 5 projector for displaying the different MOV clips at appropriate times.  There is Director also, but Flash seems to have direct support for playing Quicktime while woith Director you must include Xtras -- bulkier, etc.  It will not presented as a game; rather just the order of viewing can be altered and outcomes will vary depending on where the viewer has "been" and which choices he or she makes.  The choices will be basically in the classic form of text choices that detemine outcome at different points, but presented in such an integrated way that the viewer does not leave the movie's world -- one specific character (see 'Legba') will present the choices in a clever manner (not with the standard computer-font text choices).  As with the rest of the language in the movie, the choices will also be a garbled non-language such that the viewer does not make a literal choice of what will happen to the character but an abstract one based on the tone of the language. Each choice will result in different things happening to the characters -- different interactions -- and place them on a good, bad, or indifferent path, shown by following a new path of clips (see Characters section for specific details).  We can of course always compile the clips into linear videos for viewing of one path in the branched web of clips.\par
\par
We are building a surrealistic world with complex interacting characters.  As you read the Characters section you'll begin to understand how it is an imaginary/surrealistic world but the interactions are based in reality.  The appearance of all characters and objects is rather other-worldly but understandings of their relation to human characters and objects will form.  The goal is simply to explore how people in society interact with one another and our characters will fit certain archetypes of humanity.  As the characters are complex, none are good or bad, but each seem to have something on which they are 'stuck' that benefits or detriments them and so their expulsion or embrace of it could enhance their situation for better or worse.  Technically, character interaction will be presented gesturally with the body and through facial expression.  Not fully-animated facial expression however; they will all have masks that change expression between several pre-made expressions.  Masks will be built from objects and clay, and the clay is the part that will mainly change for the expressions by replacing it with other clay parts.  Also each mask will have a moveable jaw for speech. The masks have more use than just saving animation energy -- they are an integral part of the story (see Characters).\par
\par
The style will be entirely stop-motion and puppetry.  We are gathering or have already gathered materials such as spare parts (plastic, machine, ceramic), plasticine, acrylic and enamel and spray paints, different cloths, astroturf, wire (for armatures mainly; other uses too), lamps, etc. We don't have all of this already but by the end of this weekend should have a lot (without having spent too much money).\par
\par
As mentioned earlier, the beings of the world will speak in a non-language, this cut-up vocal style which will be remiscent of one of my recent musical projects that will be released on CD within the next couple of months -- a collaborative album called Original Instrument, in which all instruments are made up of human voices of different languages. A 100% vocals album but no words are fully spoken and melodies and rhythms are formed from these bits.  This form of language will be referred to by us as Garbalang.  The character Masko in his lunatic rants will speak in a more English manner but still incorrect/unusual, called Babglish.  The viewer choices presented by Legba will be in another form of Babglish, as well as Legba's translation of the second musical segment (see Musicality).  Babglish is not the written version of Garbalang (which \i is\i0  only spoken), they are just dialects with Babglish being slightly easier for us English-speakers to comprehend.  Garbalang is more understandable from intonation and context than literal interpretation.\par
\par
\b ----------------------------------------------------------------\par
\b0\par
\b 2. Characters\par
\b0\par
\ul\b\par
Masko\ulnone  (illusion peddler):\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\qj\b0\tab A tall, gaunt man always pushing a cart filled with masks and with various bizarre devices hanging off the side. He possesses a device that allows him to take masks off of other characters and replace them with one from his cart. Because of this, he is widely sought after as a transformative being- other characters see him as a means to grow and fulfill their wishes/dreams. The growth offered through the changing of the masks is tainted, however- he is more mini-mall cosmetics shop than transcendental guru. His function, and the demands/ expectations of those who seek him out put him under enormous pressure, and cause him to have a split personality. He appears in the vignettes in one of two forms: either (1) pushing the cart of masks and cosmetic devices, occasionally stopping to change the mask of a minor character, or (2) a raving lunatic. When he appears as a lunatic, he is without his cart, and wearing a different mask. He rants and raves in a distorted form of English- the only time coherent words are spoken. None of the other characters understand him, and find his outbursts unsettling. \par
\tab Thematically, he is a sacrifice to the superficial longings of the greater society, serving as a conduit for individual\rquote s desire for an easy painless way to change themselves. On a personal level, he is traumatically bound to his position and his cart- so much so that he is forced into the outbursts of his lunatic personality. Over the course of the narrative, he is faced with the challenge of striking a balance between the two. He either rejects one completely, forcing himself permanently into the other, or leaves without having chosen.\par
\par
Resolutions:\par
\par
\b + :\par
\tab Masko \b0 comes to the coastline, distraught. The stresses of his function are getting to him. His distress grows and culminates in him pushing his cart violently off of the cliff and into the water. The cart, masks, and devices go sailing off, crashing into the water and sinking out of sight forever. He stands at the edge of the cliff, holding his device (which is now utterly useless), and comes closer and closer to critical mass. \b OldRidder\b0  (see below) devours the device, as it is worthless and ugly. \b Masko \b0 transforms into his lunatic form, and runs away ranting. He is free of himself, and the world is rid of the masks.\par
\par
\b +/- :\par
\b0\tab\b Masko\b0  comes to the coastline, and by some means (either water or air) departs permanently the continent where the narrative takes place. As he leaves (along with his cart), the lunatic mask is seen strapped to his back. It is the first time that evidence of  both the illusion peddler and the lunatic are seen at the same time. A kind of compromise is implied, and he goes on to operate somewhere far distant. He neither grows past his faults nor succumbs to them\par
\par
\b .- :\b0\tab\par
\pard\fi720\nowidctlpar\qj\b Masko \b0 is seen in lunatic form, and begins to seem troubled. He starts shaking his head and clawing at his (lunatic) mask. As this happens, the camera circles around to find the cart behind him. It is the first time that evidence of both forms is seen at the same time. As he gets more and more distressed, the cart starts shaking and the masks move around inside of it. He tries repeatedly to pull the mask off, never succeeding but occasionally revealing black tendrils extending from the inside of the mask into his face. He finally gets the lunatic mask off, and just as he does, the masks from his cart (which have been forming a line behind him) overtake him, attaching themselves to him all over his body. He becomes a mass of chattering masks, and stumbles away. The cart lies overturned, the lunatic mask on the ground broken nearby.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\qj\ul\b\par
\par
OldRidder \ulnone (sainted patron of necessary destruction):\par
\par
\tab\b0 An old, large and fat man-being with short legs for walking/waddling. He has a long white beard that extends from under his mask and occasionally gestures for him. He is fundamentally benevolent, devouring things that are somehow tainted or corrupted - things that are ugly, dangerous, or cruel. Also he eats things that he deems useless or broken and beyond worthwhile repair. He befriends \b Kid\b0  (see below) by eating a group of mean-spirited creatures that tease and torment him. He is set apart from the other characters since he is tied to a constructive function rather than a detrimental one. While other characters have some aspect of themselves they must overcome in order to grow or some obsession they must free themselves from, \b OldRidder\b0  fulfills a necessary and important function. For him, the denial of himself is the means by which he loses out, rather than that by which he gains.\par
\par
Resolutions:\par
\par
\b + :\par
\b0\tab\b OldRidder\b0  dies. This is not an unwelcome event for him however, as he is old and, by his nature, understands and appreciates passings. The thing which makes his death poignant, though (and this depends on the relationship between he and \b Kid\b0 ) is what happens \i after\i0  he dies. His enormous belly opens up to reveal an ornate and slightly archaic \b belly box\b0 . \b Kid\b0 , who has (in this path at least) been with \b OldRidder\b0  the whole time, is shocked and goes over to investigate. He picks up the \b Belly Box\b0  and carries it off with him. The box, and \b Kid\b0  as it\rquote s caretaker, take over \b OldRidder\rquote s \b0 old function- instead of \b OldRidder \b0 eating things, they are sucked into the box and disappear. \par
\b\par
+/-:\par
\tab OldRidder\b0  dies here, too, but in a timeline in which he and \b Kid\b0  have not stayed connected. (A reason that he and \b Kid\b0  may not have stayed together: when \b OldRidder\b0  attempts to eat \b Kid\b0 's \b toy\b0  to try and help \b Kid\b0  grow, \b Kid\b0  dislikes the action and leaves.)  The box still enters the world through his death, but by leaping out through his throat. It has grown legs and runs off. The box is not quite as beautiful as it is above, and it is unclear as to what function it will serve without him.  It may seek out \b Kid\b0  to protect him or try to make amends and return things to how they were when \b OldRidder\b0  was alive and they were together.  \b Kid\b0 , however, will fear the strange \b belly box\b0  on first sight because he does not know it to be related to \b OldRidder\b0 .\par
\par
\b -:\par
\tab OldRidder \b0 gives up- he decides that he has done all and to do more is impossible- there is just too much deserving of eating for him to devour it all. He seems depressed (as a marked difference from his usual personality), and starts shrinking, getting slimmer and slimmer. He shrinks until he is painfully thin, with bones showing through his skin. Other minor characters watch this happen and are frightened by what it implies\par
\par
\par
\ul\b Lovers \ulnone :\par
\par
\tab\b0 A pair of characters, \b Loverm \b0 and \b Loverf. \b0 They are quite happy at the beginning of the narrative, though there is a hint of discord. Whenever they are alone, they engage in a highly stylized, somewhat mechanical, ritualized repetitive touch- an intimacy abstraction. \b Loverm \b0 notices a small lump on her mask, and begins obsessing on it. Eventually, this begins to interfere with their relationship as \b Loverm \b0 begins to be drawn more to the bump, the \b obs\b0 , than to \b Loverf\b0 . The \b obs\b0  grows in direct proportion to \b Loverm\b0 's obsession with it. This can be represented literally -- when he first notices it it pulsates large and as time progress it grows larger and becomes altered.  \b Loverf\b0  is increasingly more distressed by \b Loverm\b0 's lack of attention to anything else about her. Eventually, distraught and confused, \b Loverf\b0  visits \b Masko\b0  and implores him to help her, and he changes her mask for her. When explaining to \b Masko\b0 , the \b obs\b0  will grow larger as \b Masko\b0  understands the situation as it did when \b Loverm\b0  began obsessing it. \b Loverf\b0  is now happy, confidant that she has solved the problem by removing the \b obs\b0 , but his fixation causes a new one to sprout on the new mask, and it grows larger than the first. \b Loverf\b0  loves \b Loverm \b0 and can\rquote t understand why he is so absorbed by the \b obs\b0 . \b Loverm\b0  loves \b Loverf\b0 , but is completely blinded by his irrational obsession.\par
\par
\b +:\par
\tab Loverf \b0 is made even more desperate by the return of the \b obs\b0  and his continuing fixation, and visits \b Masko \b0 a second time. This time, he gives her a bizarre and violent-looking device from the side of the cart, with which to remove the \b obs. Loverf\b0  goes home to try it, thinking her problems will be solved. When \b Loverf\b0  attempts to use the device, however, it proves to have a life of its own, and attacks her. \b Loverm \b0 is startled into action, and springs to her defense. \b Loverm \b0 fights off the device, but is scarred in the process. The \b obs \b0 falls off on its own during the fight, and is eaten by \b OldRidder\b0 . Their relationship is renewed, and they live together on the coast, adopting \b Kid\b0  if he is \b OldRidder\b0 -less at that point, as part of their new life.\par
\b\par
+/-:\par
\tab Loverm \b0 develops an \b obs\b0  as well, and \b Loverf \b0 is every bit as fascinated by his as he was by hers. Having an \b obs \b0 of his own does a number of things to him- he doesn\rquote t like it at all, and so it drives a wedge between him and her as he can\rquote t understand why she is so fixated on it. Also, he understands somewhat what is was like for her to have one, and feels guilty for being so fixated on hers. They stay together, but in an only moderately satisfying way. They are both completely bound to each other by their corresponding fixation on their partner\rquote s \b obs\b0 , but they both also know on some level (since they experience it from both sides) that their partner is not really relating to them anymore.\par
\par
\b -:  \par
\tab Loverm \b0 becomes completely and utterly blinded by his obsession, so much so that \b Loverf \b0  becomes almost unreal to him -- merely a barrier between him and the \b obs. \b0 In a horrific scene, he cuts the \b obs \b0 off of her face-mask. \b Loverf\b0  crumples, bleeding to death from the hole in her mask. \b Loverm\b0  doesn\rquote t even notice her lying at his feet, as he is reveling in possession of the \b obs.\b0   At the height of his reverie he swallows the \b obs\b0 , and his stomach promptly explodes. His body lays next to \b Loverf\b0 's, the unharmed and now stone-like \b obs\b0  prominent in his open chest. \b OldRidder \b0 enters upon the scene and somberly eats the \b obs\b0 .\f1\fs24\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ul\b\f0\fs20\par
Kid\ulnone  (uncertain dependant child growing out)\par
\b0\par
\tab\b Kid \b0 wanders the land looking for friends.  He has a strange shape-shifting object called the \b toy \b0 which he depends on to interact with the world.  It is multipurpose; it can extend and transform to bring good things close or fend off others.  At one point he is harrassed by a group of creatures (Bullies) who take away the \b toy\b0 . \b OldRidder \b0 comes in and saves \b Kid \b0 and the \b toy \b0 by devouring the Bullies.  When eating them, he skillfully spares the \b toy \b0 such that it is left there in place or spinning.  He also spares the smallest of the Bullies because this one was only dragged along to the harrassment session and does not do such things on his own will.  This young creature runs off just after his peers are consumed.  After this, \b Kid \b0 seeks out Old Ridder, befriends him, and apprentices.  The child attempts to learn how to rid the world of the broken, useless, trouble-causing like the \b OldRidder \b0 but cannot do it because he is not physically able or created for that purpose.  He cannot get the hang of it, yet he tries and tries.  He is still very dependent on the \b toy\b0  for dealing with the world.  The life-decision that he will make involves ridding himself of this dependency.\par
\par
Resolutions:\par
\par
\b +:\par
\b0\tab When \b OldRidder \b0 dies and \b Kid \b0 is there with him, \b OldRidder\b0 's Belly Box emerges from the belly and thus Old Ridder's job is passed on to the child.  \b Kid \b0 carries around the Belly Box with him everywhere with the memory of \b OldRidder \b0 and continues Old Ridder's ridding occupation as the box eats the junk.  He replaces the \b toy\b0  with the Belly Box and gain independency, in effect transitions from childhood to adulthood.\par
\par
\b +/-:\par
\b0\tab The \b toy\b0  leaves \b Kid\b0 's possession but not because \b Kid \b0 discards it on purpose.  Thus he does not consciously decide to grow out of it but rather he is forced to.  This can happen in several ways.  The \b toy\b0  could leave \b Kid \b0 -- it was being held against it's will.  Either it will up and leave or it has a being within it that leaves once the \b toy\b0  has broken apart and exposed the being.  Another way: \b Kid \b0 may spot something else and drop \b toy\b0  for a moment, choosing the elsething over the \b toy\b0  because it is attractive at first glance, but then it isn't so satisfying because it does not interact for him as the \b toy\b0  did.  He wishes to get the \b toy\b0  back, but it is gone (it walked off or he dropped it somewhere hazardous).\par
\par
\b -:\par
\b0\tab\b Kid \b0 depends too much on the \b toy\b0 , despite \b OldRidder\b0 's wise attempt to get rid of it, and grows into the ground.  He becomes immobile and attached to the ground and fully dependent on the \b toy\b0 .  It is now his only method of interaction with the world.  \b OldRidder \b0 comes across the useless grounded \b Kid \b0 and eats him.\par
\par
\par
\ul\b Legba\ulnone  (chooser mechanism being)\par
\b0\par
\tab Legba is not a complex character but a functional one who presents the viewer with textual choices that affect how the story is told.  He presents it differently each time in any interesting way. Such as: rolling out the text onto the ground with the typewriter-ball wheels/treads that he is wearing, displaying a billboard with the choices scrawled out, etc.  The choices will be in Babglish and have an abstract correspondance with the outcome.  When he enters the scene in whichever current form/attachments he has, it will foreshadow that a choice is about to be made; the viewer will grow to recognize that his presence, recognizeable but slightly different each time, means an upcoming choice.  The camera will focus on him as he enters the scene and other characters may make way for him. The name of this character 'Legba' is the only one which will never be written in Babglish as the narrative will never be about him.  The other characters's names may have an occurance or two depending on how the translation of the musicals work out.\par
\b\par
----------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
3. Musicality\par
\b0\par
There are three musical segments in the movie.  The \b first\b0  is the introduction, which will serve to set the mood humorously and introduce some of the characters.  It will take place in the village/city and be in Garbalang.  It will be static -- the same musical every time the movie is viewed.  The \b second\b0  is the sort of intermission summary.  It will not be static -- the music and some clips will be different depending on choices the viewer has made.  It will serve to summarize what is going on and for those who aren't comprehending the surrealistic world it may shed some light on what some of the interactions mean.  Depending on where characters stand in their spectrum of benefit / detriment (+, -, or +/-), different clips will be shown at times during the musical while they are summarized by song. As each character has a +, -, and +/- 'state' (see Characters), there will be a corresponding clip (probably re-used small portion of larger clip that will be seen previously or later) played during the musical.  The song itself will have +, -, and +/- mooded segments which will be arranged according to which clips are being shown and the Garbalang vocal part of the song will not change its words depending on which clips, but rather Legba will translate it Babglish to whatever is appropriate.  The \b third \b0 musical segment will occur at the very end and only be heard in the case that all characters are in their most '+' mode; a wondrous all-is-well sing-song extravaganza.\par
\par
\b ----------------------------------------------------------------\par
\b0\par
\b 4. Setting\par
\b0\par
This area is still a bit vague but the current characters and plot call for these settings:\par
\par
\ul Village\ulnone\par
The starting point of the story is in the village. Most interactions take place here.\par
\par
\ul Wilderness\ulnone\par
Between the village and the coastline, Old Ridder tends to like it here and on the outskirts of the town.  His abode is here and it is large with silos.\par
\ul\par
Coast-line\ulnone\par
Location of the mask cart's destruction (dumped over a cliff into the sea) -- in fact all endings tend to take place on the coastline. As it is the end of the land it is the place of the end of events and resolution of characters' changes.  The lovers's cottage (if they work things out and live happily) is here or their burnt-spot lack-of-cottage is in the same place (if they end up living less harmoniously together). Other objects here are a ship and dock.\par
\par
All settings are built from fantastic/surreal objects like the characters; a ship is not an earthly sea vessel and a forest is not comprised of evergreen trees.\par
}
 